\input x86_Toolchain.sh

@c 			<FILE_HEADER>
@setfilename x86_toolchain.sh.info
@settitle The x86 Toolchain Shell Script Manual v1.0
@c 			</FILE_HEADER>

@c 			<COPYRIGHT_INFO>
@copying
@*GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3, 29 June 2007
@*Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
@*Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document,
but changing it is not allowed.
@end copying
@c 			</COPYRIGHT_INFO>

@c 			<TITLE_PAGE>
@titlepage
@title x86 Toolchain Shell Script

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1fill
@c Pointing to Copyright Page
@insertcopying
@end titlepage
@c 			</TITLE_PAGE>

@c <TOP_NODE>
@node Top, SYNOPSIS, (dir), (dir)
@menu
* SYNOPSIS::Overview of the x86 Toolchain
* DESCRIPTION::Usage (Flags, Syntax and Specifications) and Details Pertaining to the x86 Toolchain
* PREREQUISITES::How to Configure x86 Toolchain
* ENVIRONMENT::Environment Assumptions
* VERSION::Version Information
* BUGS::List of Any Known Operability Issues
* AUTHOR::Project Acknowledgements
@end menu
@c </TOP_NODE>

@c 			<SYNOPSIS>

@node SYNOPSIS, DESCRIPTION, (dir), (dir)
SYNOPSIS
This Toolchain is designed to enhance and optimize the usability of GDB Enhanced Features (GEF) by automating certain processes and tasks on the User's behalf.
The goal of this project is to enable lower-level .nasm files to Compile and Debug seamlessly, in an accessible User Interface.

The goal of this project is to create a tool that simplifies the process of compilation and debugging by reducing the number of steps and instructions required. 
@c 			</SYNOPSIS>


@c 			<DESCRIP>
@node DESCRIPTION, PREREQUISITES, (dir), (dir)
DESCRIPTION
@*x86_toolchain.sh [ options ] <assembly filename> [-o | --output <output filename>]
@*
@*OPTIONS
@*-v | --verbose                Show some information about steps performed.
@*-g | --gdb                    Run gdb command on executable.
@*-b | --break <break point>    Add breakpoint after running gdb. Default is _start.
@*-r | --run                    Run program in gdb automatically. Same as run command inside gdb env.
@*-q | --qemu                   Run executable in QEMU emulator. This will execute the program.
@*-64| --x86-64                 Compile for 64bit (x86-64) system.
@*-o | --output <filename>      Output filename.
@c 			</DESCRIP>

@c 			<PREREQS>
@node PREREQUISITES, ENVIRONMENT, (dir), (dir)
@*PREREQUISITES
@*
@*Install GDB:
@*	$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install gdb
@*
@*Install GEF:
@*	$ via the install script
@*	$$ using curl
@*	$ bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://gef.blah.cat/sh)"
@*
@*	$$ using wget
@*	$ bash -c "$(wget https://gef.blah.cat/sh -O -)"
@*
@*	$ or manually
@*	$ wget -O ~/.gdbinit-gef.py -q https://gef.blah.cat/py
@*	$ echo source ~/.gdbinit-gef.py >> ~/.gdbinit
@*
@*	$ or alternatively from inside gdb directly
@*	$ gdb -q
@*	(gdb) pi import urllib.request as u, tempfile as t; g=t.NamedTemporaryFile(suffix='-gef.py'); open(g.name, 'wb+').write(u.urlopen('https://tinyurl.com/gef-main').read()); gdb.execute('source %s' % g.name)
@*	
@*Add Toolchain Script to PATH:
@*	$ echo 'export PATH=$PATH:~/ITSC204/scripts' >> ~/.bashrc
@*
@*Install QEMU
@*	$ sudo apt install qemu-user
@c 			</PREREQS>

@c 			<ENVIRONMENT>
@node ENVIRONMENT, VERSION, (dir), (dir)
ENVIRONMENT
@*
@*Assumptions for Intel x86 Environment in Kali Linux:
@*
    @*Install NASM - sudo apt-get install nasm
    @*Install VSCode - sudo apt-get install code
    @*Install assembly extension inside VS Code - extension name: nasm
    @*Assign the above extension to .s files
    @*Install GDB - sudo apt-get install gdb
    @*Install GEF - https://github.com/hugsy/gef
    @*Create / download x-86_toolchain.sh script
    @*Make the above script executable
    @*Add the above script to PATH: **echo 'export PATH=$PATH:~/ITSC204/scripts' >> .bashrc Note: writing it to .bashrc makes the path persistent within bash
@c 			</ENVIRONMENT>

@c 			<VERSION>
@node VERSION, BUGS, (dir), (dir)
VERSION
@*
@*The x86 Toolchain Shell Script v1.0

@c 			</VERSION>

@c 			<BUGS>
@node BUGS, AUTHOR, (dir), (dir)
BUGS
@*
@*NO KNOWN BUGS AT THIS TIME.
@c 			</BUGS>

@c 			<AUTHOR_ACK>
@node AUTHOR, Top, (dir), (dir)
AUTHOR
@*
@*Created by Lubos Kuzma
@*ISS Program, SADT, SAIT
@*August 2022
@*
@insertcopying
@*
@*The x86 Toolchain Shell Script Manual v1.0
@*Created by Alexander Myrdal
@*On Behalf of Group A-4
@c 			</AUTHOR_ACK>

@bye


